Scots, a sister language of English spoken throughout Scotland, has a long history. It arose from northern English dialects around the 14th century and spread east and northwards, supplanting the indigenous Gaelic language, and developing into a socially and politically high status language with spoken and written norms distinct from those in England. From the 17th century onwards, political, religious and social events led to a loss of status, and thus a shrinking of the domains in which Scots was used, but while English norms replaced Scots in writing, *spoken* Scots continued to be used. Present day Scots is characterised by the *Scots Linguistic Continuum* with Standard Scottish English – generally described as being close to Standard English but with an overlay of distinctly Scottish sounds – at one end and Broad Scots – much further from Standard English with its own words, sounds and sentence structures – at the other. In terms of the social profiles, Scottish Standard English is spoken by middle class speakers and in more formal situations such as in schools, while Broad Scots is spoken by working class speakers and in informal situations such as with family and friends. Speakers may styleshift up and down the continuum according to, amongst others, interlocutor and context. At the Broad Scots end of the continuum, there is significant geographic diversity, where, for example, speakers in Glasgow sound very different to speakers in Aberdeen. The speakers in these recordings are from a range of geographic locations, and align more with the Broad Scots end of the continuum.
