Galician is the language of Galicia (Spain). In addition to being a language of use in this territory, it is spoken in other bordering areas, although without official status (Asturias, León, Zamora). It belongs to the Indo-European language family, specifically the Romance languages, along with Spanish, Portuguese and Catalan. It also has a close relationship with Portuguese since they share historical origins, but today they constitute two separate languages with each one having its own respective standard. The state of vitality of the language is “Institutional” according to Ethnologue https://www.ethnologue.com/language/glg/, that is, the language is developed, has a standard variety, is taught at all stages of the Galician educational system and has institutional support. However, from the point of view of sociolinguistics, both the autonomous community of Galicia and the other territories that speak the Galician language present typical features of a situation of linguistic conflict (diglossia), resulting from a historical process of replacement of Galician (a minority language) by Spanish. 

The Galician language is a rich and diverse reality, and its linguistic variation is manifested in spontaneous speech. Thus, aspects such as age, geography, sociocultural level or communicative context also influence linguistic uses. At the dialectal level, Galician presents differentiating features between the eastern and western areas, as well as between the north and the south: phonetic changes (such as the use of *gheada* or *seseo*), lexical variations (different words to designate the same object) or even small morpho-syntactic differences.
